# CQL Datatypes

| Data Type     | Constants         | Description                               |
| ------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| ascii         | strings           | Represents ASCII character string         |
| bigint        | bigint            | Represents 64-bit signed long             |
| **blob**      | blobs             | Represents arbitrary bytes                |
| Boolean       | booleans          | Represents true or false                  |
| **counter**   | integers          | Represents counter column                 |
| decimal       | integers, floats  | Represents variable-precision decimal     |
| double        | integers          | Represents 64-bit IEEE-754 floating point |
| float         | integers, floats  | Represents 32-bit IEEE-754 floating point |
| inet          | strings           | Represents an IP address, IPv4 or IPv6    |
| int           | integers          | Represents 32-bit signed int              |
| text          | strings           | Represents UTF8 encoded string            |
| **timestamp** | integers, strings | Represents a timestamp                    |
| **timeuuid**  | uuids             | Represents type 1 UUID                    |
| **uuid**      | uuids             | Represents type 1 or type 4               |
|               |                   | UUID                                      |
| varchar       | strings           | Represents uTF8 encoded string            |
| varint        | integers          | Represents arbitrary-precision integer    |

## Collection Types

Cassandra Query Language also provides a collection data types. The 
following table provides a list of Collections available in CQL.

| Collection | Description                                             |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| list       | A list is a collection of one or more ordered elements. |
| map        | A map is a collection of key-value pairs.               |
| set        | A set is a collection of one or more elements.          |

## User-defined datatypes

Cqlsh provides users a facility of creating their own data types. 
Given below are the commands used while dealing with user defined 
datatypes.

- **CREATE TYPE** − Creates a user-defined datatype.

- **ALTER TYPE** − Modifies a user-defined datatype.

- **DROP TYPE** − Drops a user-defined datatype.

- **DESCRIBE TYPE** − Describes a user-defined datatype.

- **DESCRIBE TYPES** − Describes user-defined datatypes.

# CQL Collections

---

CQL provides the facility of using Collection data types. Using these
 Collection types, you can store multiple values in a single variable. 
This chapter explains how to use Collections in Cassandra.

## List

List is used in the cases where

- the order of the elements is to be maintained, and
- a value is to be stored multiple times.

### Creating a Table with List

Given below is an example to create a sample table with two columns, 
name and email. To store multiple emails, we are using list.

```
CREATE TABLE data(name text PRIMARY KEY, email list<text>);
```

```
INSERT INTO data(name, email) VALUES ('ramu',
['abc@gmail.com','cba@yahoo.com'])
```

```
 UPDATE data
... SET email = email +['xyz@tutorialspoint.com']
... where name = 'ramu';
```

## SET

Set is a data type that is used to store a group of elements. The elements of a set will be returned in a sorted order.

### Creating a Table with Set

The following example creates a sample table with two columns, name 
and phone. For storing multiple phone numbers, we are using set.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> CREATE TABLE data2 (name text PRIMARY KEY, phone set<varint>);

### inserting Data into a Set

While inserting data into the elements in a set, enter all the values separated by comma within curly braces { } as shown below.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> INSERT INTO data2(name, phone)VALUES ('rahman',    {9848022338,9848022339});

### Updating a Set

The following code shows how to update a set in a table named data2. Here we are adding another phone number to the set.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> UPDATE data2
   ... SET phone = phone + {9848022330}
   ... where name = 'rahman';

## MAP

Map is a data type that is used to store a key-value pair of elements.

### Creating a Table with Map

The following example shows how to create a sample table with two 
columns, name and address. For storing multiple address values, we are 
using map.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> CREATE TABLE data3 (name text PRIMARY KEY, address
map<timestamp, text>);

### Inserting Data into a Map

While inserting data into the elements in a map, enter all the **key : value** pairs separated by comma within curly braces { } as shown below.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> INSERT INTO data3 (name, address)
   VALUES ('robin', {'home' : 'hyderabad' , 'office' : 'Delhi' } );

### Updating a Set

The following code shows how to update the map data type in a table 
named data3. Here we are changing the value of the key office, that is, 
we are changing the office address of a person named robin.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> UPDATE data3
   ... SET address = address+{'office':'mumbai'}
   ... WHERE name = 'robin';

# CQL User Defined Datatypes

CQL provides the facility of creating and using user-defined data types.
 You can create a data type to handle multiple fields. This chapter 
explains how to create, alter, and delete a user-defined data type.

```
CREATE TYPE <keyspace name>. <data typename>
( variable1, variable2).
```

### Example

Given below is an example for creating a user-defined data type. In this example, we are creating a **card_details** data type containing the following details.

| Field                          | Field name | Data type |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | --------- |
| credit card no                 | num        | int       |
| credit card pin                | pin        | int       |
| name on credit card            | name       | text      |
| cvv                            | cvv        | int       |
| Contact details of card holder | phone      | set       |

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> CREATE TYPE card_details (
   ... num int,
   ... pin int,
   ... name text,
   ... cvv int,
   ... phone set<int>
... );

**Note** − The name used for user-defined data type should not coincide with reserved type names.

### Verification

Use the **DESCRIBE** command to verify whether the type created has been created or not.

CREATE TYPE tutorialspoint.card_details (
   num int,
   pin int,
   name text,
   cvv int,
   phone set<int>
   );

## Altering a User-defined Data Type

**ALTER TYPE** − command is used to alter an existing data type. Using ALTER, you can add a new field or rename an existing field.

### Adding a Field to a Type

Use the following syntax to add a new field to an existing user-defined data type.

ALTER TYPE typename
ADD field_name field_type; 

The following code adds a new field to the **Card_details** data type. Here we are adding a new field called email.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> ALTER TYPE card_details ADD email text;

### Verification

Use the **DESCRIBE** command to verify whether the new field is added or not.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> describe type card_details;
CREATE TYPE tutorialspoint.card_details (
   num int,
   pin int,
   name text,
   cvv int,
   phone set<int>,
   );

### Renaming a Field in a Type

Use the following syntax to rename an existing user-defined data type.

ALTER TYPE typename
RENAME existing_name TO new_name;

The following code changes the name of the field in a type. Here we are renaming the field email to mail.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> ALTER TYPE card_details RENAME email TO mail;

### Verification

Use the **DESCRIBE** command to verify whether the type name changed or not.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> describe type card_details;
CREATE TYPE tutorialspoint.card_details (
   num int,
   pin int,
   name text,
   cvv int,
   phone set<int>,
   mail text
   );

## Deleting a User-defined Data Type

**DROP TYPE** is the command used to delete a user-defined data type. Given below is an example to delete a user-defined data type.

### Example

Before deleting, verify the list of all user-defined data types using **DESCRIBE_TYPES** command as shown below.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> DESCRIBE TYPES;
card_details card

From the two types, delete the type named **card** as shown below.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> drop type card;

Use the **DESCRIBE** command to verify whether the data type dropped or not.

cqlsh:tutorialspoint> describe types;
card_details
