### 1) Tell me something about yourself.



How hard can it be to talk about yourself? We do it on a daily basis without much thought to it.

However,
 recruitment managers are not looking for your whole life story, your 
third-grade achievements, or what you had for dinner last night. 
Instead, **they are looking for a pitch**. 

This is usually the first question asked in an interview, so it acts as your introduction. Make sure your answer is **relevant to the position** you are applying for. What you should be aiming for here is to [present yourself](https://novoresume.com/career-blog/how-to-brand-yourself) as the ideal candidate for the job.

A good rule of thumb is to structure your talking points as follows:

- **Briefly introduce yourself:** What’s your name? How long have you been working as [profession]?
- What do you **love** about your job?
- What are your top 2-3 achievements that are **relevant to the job** you’re applying for?

Now, let’s go through some examples:

Possible Answers for "Tell me About Yourself":

- **Sample Answer 1:**

*Hey! So, my name is John Doe and I’ve worked as a business analyst for 5+ years in Company X and Company Y.*

*I have some background in data analysis, having studied Information Systems at [Made-Up] University.*

*Throughout my career, I’ve done some pretty impressive stuff (if I do say so myself, haha).* 

*For
 example, at Company X, I led a project for migrating all operations 
data to a new data warehousing system to cut down on costs. The new 
solution was a much better fit for our business, which eventually led to
 savings of up to $200,000 annually.*

- **Sample Answer 2:**

*I am Jane Doe, a* [*recent college graduate*](https://novoresume.com/career-blog/how-to-find-recent-graduate-jobs) *from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.* 

*I
 have just graduated with honors in Biochemistry. I know my way around a
 lab and have had multiple opportunities to put my knowledge into 
practice as a chemistry research assistant.*

*The lab felt 
like home, which is why I’d love to work as a lab assistant. I am 
passionate, hard-working, and extremely responsible. I am also looking 
forward to putting to practice all the things I learned during my time 
at university.*



### 2) How did you hear about this position?

Although at first glance this might seem like a straightforward question, you should grab any opportunity you can to [**show your interest**](https://novoresume.com/career-blog/letter-of-interest) in the company. 

Even
 if you haven’t been continuously refreshing the company’s website for 
job listings, make it seem like you have (in a professional way, of 
course). Show **excitement** and curiosity.

If someone inside the company told you about the position or **recommended** that you apply, definitely make sure to mention that.

You’ll have a much better chance at getting hired if someone credible can vouch for your skills.

So,
 mention his/her name and his/her position inside the company and give 
their reasoning for inviting or recommending you to apply for the 
position. Tell the hiring managers what excites you about the job 
opportunity or what exactly caught your eye.

Possible answers for "How did you hear about this position?":

- **Sample answer 1:**

*“I’ve
 known about [MadeUpTechnologies] for a long time - I’m a big fan of 
your products. I even own one of your latest phone models!*

*I love the company’s passion for creating super intuitive, beautiful hardware, and I would love to be a part of it.*

*So,
 when I saw your job ad at [RandomJobBoardWebsite], even though I wasn’t
 actively looking for a job at the time, I couldn’t help but apply!”*

- **Sample answer 2:**

*“I
 heard from Jim Doe, my old colleague and college friend, that [Company 
X] was looking for a new sales director. He encouraged me to apply, 
saying that my experience managing a sales team at [Some Software 
Company] would be helpful for [Company X].*

*I’ve heard a 
lot about [Company X] from Jim, and I’m a big fan of the way you do 
things there. I’ve always wanted to work for a company with a flat 
organizational structure.”*



### 3) Why did you decide to apply for this position?

Through this question, the interviewers want to assess how passionate you are for the position. And no, the answer isn’t:

*“Well, I’m very passionate about not starving to death.”*

Or…

*“Well, I needed the money, and you guys tend to pay a lot.”*

What
 the interviewer is looking for here is to see how passionate you are 
about the job or the company. After all, job performance is directly 
linked to job satisfaction. The happier you are about your position at 
the company, the more productive you’ll be.

And here’s the kicker - your passion will be very evident during the interview.

When
 you’re talking to a person that’s passionate about something, you can 
pretty much feel them glow as they talk. And if you’re an HR manager 
who’s interviewed hundreds of people, this is a very good sign to hire 
the candidate.

So, use this knowledge to your advantage. 

When asked this question, your answer should include 2 things:

1. What motivated you to apply for this position, **specifically**.
2. Why this company? Have you heard of them before?

Sample Answer 1:

*I’m very passionate about* [*sustainability and renewable energy*](https://novoresume.com/career-blog/green-careers)*. In fact, I minored in Environmental Science at [XYZ University].*

*I’ve
 always wanted to put my engineering degree to a good cause - and the 
position as a Sustainability Coordinator at [Company XYZ] is just the 
right thing.*

*I’ve been following your company for the 
past few years, and I love how you’re changing the renewable energy 
landscape in America.* 

Keep in mind, though, 
that if you don’t know much about the company or the position - that’s 
OK too. Just be honest and show your passion for the job. However, it’s 
always better to do your homework before going to an interview..

Possible answer 2:

I’ve
 always wanted to get into marketing. Having done promotional jobs here 
and there, I never had an opportunity to do something more serious.

I
 do believe, though, that I have just the right skills to get started: 
copywriting, basic photoshop, and of course, lots of creativity.

So, I thought that [an internship](https://novoresume.com/career-blog/how-to-get-an-internship) at [Company X] would be an awesome start to my career in marketing.

*Want to find more samples answers to this question? Check out our article on 10+ best answers to “*[*Why do you want to work here?*](https://novoresume.com/career-blog/why-do-you-want-to-work-here)*”*
