	General
Introduce YourSelf 
Describe your experience 
Tell me about this project on your CV.
Tell me something about yourself.
How did you hear about this position?
Why do you want to work here?
Why did you decide to apply for this position?
What is your greatest strength?
What are your strengths and weaknesses?
What do you know about this company/organization?
Why should we hire you?
What is your greatest accomplishment?
What are your salary requirements?
Do you have any questions for us?
What are you looking for from a new position?
Are you considering other positions in other companies?
What is the professional achievement you’re most proud of?
What kind of working environment do you work best in?
Where do you see yourself in 5 years?
About working on a team/ collaboration with others during software development.
What improvements do you see can be done to our company website?
Do you plan on taking your Masters degree?/ Why didn't you?/ When
Are you currently working on any project? / what's your most recent project. / which one among your projects are you most proud of?
If you had the time, money and position, what kind of project/ which project will you release that can affect the market/ be unique to the market/ can help or solve people's problems.



Development Workflow

Git 
https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/git-tutorial/git-interview-questions
https://career.guru99.com/top-40-interview-questions-on-git/
https://www.shiksha.com/online-courses/articles/top-git-interview-questions-and-answers/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uszj_k0DGsg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsTthZi23VE&t=237s
git merge
 git rebase (merge and rebase and squash: https://youtu.be/0chZFIZLR_0)
 Git merge conflict and git merge --abort (resolve conflict and git merge --abort) (https://youtu.be/nDRWhKc5Yd4
https://youtu.be/xNVM5UxlFSA)
Git stash (stashing lets you put your work aside without committing it, switch to the other branch to fix the bug, then switch back and reapply the stash. https://youtu.be/DeU6opFU_zw)
git reset --mixed (--mixed and --soft resets the head to the mentioned commit id but does not reset the file the way it was during the mentioned commit. Where git reset a9c13e1 --hard resets the head to the commit id and also resets the file to the state of that commit id.   https://youtu.be/OGk5rvYw8c0)
Git Bisect
git clean 
git status
git log
 git diff
 git revert <commit>,  git reset <file> 
tagging in Git
 forking in Git
git commit —amend
 commit or amend 
Head
working tree and index
Git Hooks (Git hooks are shell scripts found in the hidden . git/hooks directory of a Git repository. These scripts trigger actions in response to specific events, so they can help you automate your development lifecycle.)
Git stash vs Git stash pop (The git stash apply command leaves the topmost stash on the stash list so we can use it later. On the other hand, the git stash pop command removes or throws away the latest or the topmost stash.)
git annotate
git Directory
git cherry-pick (Cherry picking is the act of picking a commit from a branch and applying it to another.)
git remote vs git clone
detached head
git pull and git fetch

 Describe your approach to testing and improving QA(quality assurance)
Questions on SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)
SOLID Design Principles in Software Development
https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/solid-design-principles-in-software-development/
Nginx (web server / reverse proxy /  load balancer)
 HAProxy (load balancer)
Docker 
https://hub.docker.com/search?q=
Distroless: https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless
Red Hat Quay: https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/search


CI/CD pipeline
ArgoCD : https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/ 
Tekton : https://tekton.dev/ 
Github action
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLArH6NjfKsUhvGHrpag7SuPumMzQRhUKY
Gitlab CI https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PGyhBwLyK2U&t=10360s
Kubernetes : https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/ 

DataStructure&Algorithm
Have you heard about this algorithm/data structure - binary search tree?
Graph 
Tree 

Design Patterns
Creational Patterns


Abstract Factory -Provides an interface for creating families of related objects
Builder -Builds a complex object using simple objects
Factory Method -Defers instantiation of an object to a specialized function for creating instances
Object Pool -Instantiates and maintains a group of objects instances of the same type
Singleton -Restricts instantiation of a type to one object
Structural Patterns


Bridge -Decouples an interface from its implementation so that the two can vary independently
Composite -Encapsulates and provides access to a number of different objects
Decorator -Adds behavior to an object, statically or dynamically
Facade -Uses one type as an API to a number of others
Flyweight -Reuses existing instances of objects with similar/identical state to minimize resource usage
Proxy -Provides a surrogate for an object to control it's actions
Behavioral Patterns


Chain of Responsibility -Avoids coupling a sender to receiver by giving more than object a chance to handle the request
Command -Bundles a command and arguments to call later
Mediator -Connects objects and acts as a proxy
Memento -Generate an opaque token that can be used to go back to a previous state
Observer -Provide a callback for notification of events/changes to data
Registry -Keep track of all subclasses of a given class
State -Encapsulates varying behavior for the same object based on its internal state
Strategy -Enables an algorithm's behavior to be selected at runtime
Template -Defines a skeleton class which defers some methods to subclasses
Visitor -Separates an algorithm from an object on which it operates
Synchronization Patterns


Condition Variable -Provides a mechanism for threads to temporarily give up access in order to wait for some condition
Lock/Mutex -Enforces mutual exclusion limit on a resource to gain exclusive access
Monitor -Combination of mutex and condition variable patterns
Read-Write Lock -Allows parallel read access, but only exclusive access on write operations to a resource
Semaphore -Allows controlling access to a common resource
Concurrency Patterns


N-Barrier -Prevents a process from proceeding until all N processes reach to the barrier
Bounded Parallelism -Completes large number of independent tasks with resource limits
Broadcast -Transfers a message to all recipients simultaneously
Coroutines -Subroutines that allow suspending and resuming execution at certain locations
Generators -Yields a sequence of values one at a time
Reactor -Demultiplexes service requests delivered concurrently to a service handler and dispatches them syncronously to the associated request handlers
Parallelism -Completes large number of independent tasks
Producer Consumer -Separates tasks from task executions
Messaging Patterns


Fan-In -Funnels tasks to a work sink (e.g. server)
Fan-Out -Distributes tasks among workers (e.g. producer)
Futures & Promises -Acts as a place-holder of a result that is initially unknown for synchronization purposes
Publish/Subscribe -Passes information to a collection of recipients who subscribed to a topic
Push & Pull -Distributes messages to multiple workers, arranged in a pipeline
Stability Patterns


Bulkheads -Enforces a principle of failure containment (i.e. prevents cascading failures)
Circuit-Breaker -Stops the flow of the requests when requests are likely to fail
Deadline -Allows clients to stop waiting for a response once the probability of response becomes low (e.g. after waiting 10 seconds for a page refresh)
Fail-Fast -Checks the availability of required resources at the start of a request and fails if the requirements are not satisfied
Handshaking -Asks a component if it can take any more load, if it can't, the request is declined
Steady-State -For every service that accumulates a resource, some other service must recycle that resource
Profiling Patterns


Timing Functions -Wraps a function and logs the execution
Idioms


Functional Options -Allows creating clean APIs with sane defaults and idiomatic overrides
Anti-Patterns


Cascading Failures -A failure in a system of interconnected parts in which the failure of a part causes a domino effect

Machine Learning
1. Why was Machine Learning Introduced?
2. What are Different Types of Machine Learning algorithms?
3. What is Supervised Learning?
4. What is Unsupervised Learning?
5. What is ‘Naive’ in a Naive Bayes?
6. What is PCA? When do you use it?
7. Explain SVM Algorithm in Detail
8. What are Support Vectors in SVM?
9. What are Different Kernels in SVM?
10. What is Cross-Validation?
11. What is Bias in Machine Learning?
12. Explain the Difference Between Classification and Regression?
2. What is Overfitting, and How Can You Avoid It?
3. What is ‘training Set’ and ‘test Set’ in a Machine Learning Model? How Much Data Will You Allocate for Your Training, Validation, and Test Sets?
4. How Do You Handle Missing or Corrupted Data in a Dataset?
5. How Can You Choose a Classifier Based on a Training Set Data Size?
6. Explain the Confusion Matrix with Respect to Machine Learning Algorithms.
7. What Is a False Positive and False Negative and How Are They Significant?
8. What Are the Three Stages of Building a Model in Machine Learning?
10. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?
12. What is Semi-supervised Machine Learning?
17. What Is ‘naive’ in the Naive Bayes Classifier?
18. Explain How a System Can Play a Game of Chess Using Reinforcement Learning.
19. How Will You Know Which Machine Learning Algorithm to Choose for Your Classification Problem?
20. How is Amazon Able to Recommend Other Things to Buy? How Does the Recommendation Engine Work?
21. When Will You Use Classification over Regression?
22. How Do You Design an Email Spam Filter?
23. What is a Random Forest?
24. Considering a Long List of Machine Learning Algorithms, given a Data Set, How Do You Decide Which One to Use?
25. What is Bias and Variance in a Machine Learning Model?
26. What is the Trade-off Between Bias and Variance?
27. Define Precision and Recall.
28. What is a Decision Tree Classification?
29. What is Pruning in Decision Trees, and How Is It Done?
30. Briefly Explain Logistic Regression.
31. Explain the K Nearest Neighbor Algorithm.
32. What is a Recommendation System?
33. What is Kernel SVM?
34. What Are Some Methods of Reducing Dimensionality?
35. What is Principal Component Analysis?
36. What do you understand by the F1 score?
37. What do you understand by Type I vs Type II error?
38. Explain Correlation and Covariance?
39. What are Support Vectors in SVM?
40. What is Ensemble learning?
41. What is Cross-Validation?
42. What are the different methods to split a tree in a decision tree algorithm?
43. How does the Support Vector Machine algorithm handle self-learning?
44. What are the assumptions you need to take before starting with linear regression?
45. What is the difference between Lasso and Ridge regression?
State the differences between causality and correlation. 
What is Bias, Variance and what do you mean by Bias-Variance Tradeoff?
 What is Time series? What is a Box-Cox transformation?
 Explain the differences between Random Forest and Gradient Boosting machines.


